The Sustaining of Church Officers
Authenticating...
1990–1999
April 1990
Contents
Saturday Morning Session
Conference Is Here
Thomas S. Monson
Small and Simple Things
M. Russell Ballard
“Home First”
Rex D. Pinegar
The Spirituality of Service
Derek A. Cuthbert
“Ye Have Done It unto Me”
Richard P. Lindsay
“Thus Shall My Church Be Called”
Russell M. Nelson
Family Traditions
L. Tom Perry
Saturday Afternoon Session
The Sustaining of Church Officers
Thomas S. Monson
The Church Audit Committee Report
Wilford G. Edling
Statistical Report 1989
F. Michael Watson
Filling the Whole Earth
David B. Haight
“Choose You This Day”
Hans B. Ringger
Some Scriptural Lessons on Leadership
Spencer J. Condie
The Resurrection
F. Melvin Hammond
Personal Integrity
Joseph B. Wirthlin
“Endure It Well”
Neal A. Maxwell
General Priesthood Meeting
The Library of the Lord
Boyd K. Packer
The Aaronic Priesthood: Return with Honor
Robert D. Hales
The Motorcycle Ride
Kenneth Johnson
The Greatest Joy
Clinton L. Cutler
Who Is a True Friend?
Malcolm S. Jeppsen
My Brother’s Keeper
Thomas S. Monson
Keeping the Temple Holy
Gordon B. Hinckley
Sunday Morning Session
“A Little Child Shall Lead Them”
Thomas S. Monson
Standing As Witnesses of God
Howard W. Hunter
“One Small Step for a Man; One Giant Leap for Mankind”
Carlos E. Asay
“Neither Boast of Faith Nor of Mighty Works”
Marvin J. Ashton
Blessed Are the Merciful
Gordon B. Hinckley
Sunday Afternoon Session
World Peace
Dallin H. Oaks
Finding the Way Back
Richard G. Scott
Instruments to Accomplish His Purposes
Barbara W. Winder
“I Will Go and Do”
Elaine L. Jack
Teachings of a Loving Father
Horacio A. Tenorio
A Latter-day Samaritan
Merlin R. Lybbert
Preparing the Heart
H. Burke Peterson
Gratitude As a Saving Principle
James E. Faust
“Sacred Resolves”
Gordon B. Hinckley
Member Finances Fireside
Teach Them Correct Principles
Boyd K. Packer
The Lord’s Way
Thomas S. Monson
Rise to a Larger Vision of the Work
Gordon B. Hinckley
The Sustaining of Church Officers
April 1990
2:3
The Sustaining of Church Officers
By President Thomas S. Monson
Second Counselor in the First Presidency
As requested by President Benson and announced by President Hinckley, I shall now present to you the General Authorities and general officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.
It is proposed that we sustain Ezra Taft Benson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Gordon B. Hinckley as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Thomas S. Monson as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. Those in favor may manifest it. Those opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain Howard W. Hunter as President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles and the following as members of that council: Howard W. Hunter, Boyd K. Packer, Marvin J. Ashton, L. Tom Perry, David B. Haight, James E. Faust, Neal A. Maxwell, Russell M. Nelson, Dallin H. Oaks, M. Russell Ballard, Joseph B. Wirthlin, and Richard G. Scott. Those in favor, please manifest it. Opposed, if any, by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain the Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.
All in favor, please. Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities of the Church as presently constituted with the following additional brethren as new members of the Second Quorum of the Seventy: Eduardo Ayala, LeGrand R. Curtis, Clinton L. Cutler, Robert K. Dellenbach, Harold G. Hillam, Kenneth Johnson, Helvécio Martins, Lynn A. Mickelsen, J Ballard Washburn, and Durrel A. Woolsey.
Those in favor, please manifest it. Any opposed.
We release with our heartfelt thanks Brother David M. Kennedy, who has served as special representative of the First Presidency since 1974, and Brother Blaine C. Tueller, who has served as his assistant. Those who wish to join us in this expression of appreciation, please manifest it.
Sister Barbara W. Winder has accepted a call to accompany her husband, Richard, to his assignment as president of the Czechoslovakia Prague Mission. It is therefore necessary to release her as general president of the Relief Society. We also release her counselors, Joy F. Evans and Joanne B. Doxey, and all members of the Relief Society general board. In addition, we release Sister Elaine L. Jack as second counselor in the Young Women General Presidency. All who wish to join in an expression of appreciation to these sisters for their excellent service may do so by the uplifted hand.
It is proposed that we sustain Sister Elaine Low Jack as general president of the Relief Society with Chieko N. Okazaki as first counselor and Aileen H. Clyde as second counselor. Those in favor please manifest it. Any opposed by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain as second counselor in the Young Women General Presidency Sister Janette C. Hales.
All in favor, please manifest it. Any opposed.
It is proposed that we sustain the other general officers of the Church as presently constituted.
Those in favor please manifest it. Opposed, if any, by the same sign.
President Benson, it appears that the voting has been unanimous in the affirmative.
We invite the newly called members of the Seventy and general women’s presidencies to take their places on the stand at this time.